# Binaural-Localization-Model
This is the source code and experimental data for article A Binaural Localization Model based on Mammal Neural Activity Patterns. In order to run the code and reproduce these results please follow these steps:
1. Install MATLAB with version newer than R2022a. Old version software are known to produce different results.
2. Install ITA toolbox presented by RWTH Aachen Institute of Technical Acoustics at https://www.ita-toolbox.org/index.php. An unzipped install file folder is in /AWTH_HRTF/HRTF_data/toolbox_master. Run ita_toolbox_setup to install the toolbox.
3. Prepare model database. Since GitHub does not support big file, run /NeuroModel3/make_datasheet.m. to make file neuro_datasheet.mat in the folder /NeuroModel3 or mail the writer to get the source file. Remember to change the directories in the matlab code file, so that the HRTF file (.ita) points to that you downloaded. These HRTF file can be downloaded at  https://publications.rwth-aachen.de/record/793261/files/TechnicalReport_HRTF_Measurement.pdf.
4. You can try localization with /NeuroModel3/check_direction.m by changing the input and sound source location azimuth and elevation. The test sound handel.wav is just the same as that from MATLAB (load handel), but linearly interpolated to resample to 48000 sampling rate.
5. To get the data corresponding to the experiments presented in the article, clear the file output.txt and run .m file in any subfolder in /Result3. Remember to change the path of database file and HRTF file. Check the text file for localization results. Our data are saved in Excel worksheet for comparison.
